Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
E a ch y ea r .
th o s ands o f peop l e
l o se th ei r l iv e s
in tra f f i c a cci dents .
And what y o  see h ere
a re g rim reminder s
o f th o se n f o rtn ate en o gh
to be in th e wro ng p l a ce
at th e wro ng time .
Th e peop l e wh o rn
th e se wrec king y a rds
ma ke th ei r l iv ing b y
sel l ing spa re pa rts
s a lv a g ed f rom v eh i c l e s .
s ome o f wh i ch were inv o lv ed
in f ata l c ra s h e s .
Wh en I v i ew th e se
remain s I can ' t h elp
bt re f l ect o n th e ter rib l e
a cci dents that co st
th e o ccpants o f th e se
moto ri z ed v eh i c l e s
th ei r l iv e s ;
th o se b l eeding to death
wh i l e f ranti ca l l y
tr ying to s av e th emselv e s f rom
th e twi sted meta l co f f in s ;
th e f ami l y that deci ded to
ta ke an inn o cent S nda y driv e
that l timatel y became
th ei r l a st .
Hel l o . I ' m
Dr . Fran ci s B . G ro s s .
and I wo l d l i ke
to inv i te y o  o n y et
an oth er j o  rn ey th ro gh
th e Man y Fa ce s o f Death .
German y i s th e h ome
o f a speci a l ni t
kn own a s th e
Yel l ow Ang el s .
Th e se men patro l th e a tobahn s
th ro gh o t th e co ntr y .
E a ch y ea r th ey a re re spo n s ib l e
f o r s av ing th e l iv e s
o f v i ctims wh o hav e been
inj  red in a to a cci dents .
Wh en th i s man wa s h i t b y a ca r
wh i l e ri ding h i s bi c y c l e .
th e experti se o f th e Yel l ow
Ang el s came into p l a y .
Th ei r i c k a r riv a l at
th e scen e o f th e a cci dent
wa s re spo n s ib l e f o r
s av ing th i s v i ctim ' s l i f e .
Th e a tobahn wa s th e
b rain ch i l d o f Ado lph H i tl er .
Co n str cti o n beg an o n th e se
ro adwa y s in th e ea r l y 1 9 3 0 s .
Th e s oph i sti cated de s i gn
o f th e se h i ghwa y s
set th e standa rds f o r
h i gh- speed tran spo rtati o n
a ro nd th e wo r l d .
La st y ea r ov er 8 . 0 0 0
peop l e l o st th ei r l iv e s
o n th e a tobahn .
Th i s moto rc y c l i st wa s
o n e o f th o se dead .
S in ce th ere i s n o speed l imi t
o n th e se ro ads .
th e po s s ibi l i ty o f
death in c rea se s g reatl y .
Wh en y o  a re
trav el ing at speeds
in ex ce s s
o f 1 0 0 mi l e s an h o  r .
o n e wro ng t rn
can p rov e f ata l .
Beca se o f th e adv an cement
in tran spo rtati o n
o f th e 2 0 th cent r y.
mo st trav el er s
a re in a co n stant rs h
to rea ch
th ei r de stin ati o n .
B y ta king o  r ma ch in e s
f o r g ranted.
we can o nl y come o n e step
c l o ser to death .
GO r percepti o n o f speed
i s g reatl y i gn o red.
and th e co n cern f o r o  r own
s a f ety i s o f ten f o rg otten .
I f techn o l og y ev er wanted to
ta ke adv anta g e o f h man l i f e .
th e ca r i s p robab l y
i ts be st trap .
Th e h man body i s n o
match f o r th e h o r sepower
o f a power f l eng in e .
Un f o rtn atel y. I see
n o s o l ti o n
to th i s f a ce o f death .
f o r a s l o ng
a s peop l e driv e .
peop l e wi l l
a l s o di e .
Wh en l a y er s o f f og
ro l l ov er th e a tobahn .
a cci dents become
ev en mo re p rev a l ent .
Wh en a nin e-ca r a cci dent
o cc r red d ring th i s weath er .
a tr c k driv er .
n ab l e to see th e ro ad ah ead.
c ra s h ed into th e se ca r s
at 9 0 mi l e s per h o  r .
H i s 3 8 -to n tr c k j ammed
th e ca r s into o n e an oth er
and a h g e
f i re re s l ted .
Th o se wh o weren ' t
b rn ed to death
were trapped and c rs h ed
in th ei r v eh i c l e s .
D ring th e y ea r
o f 1 9 8 0 .
a maj o r ci ty
in th e Uni ted S tate s
became an i dea l
setting f o r death .
A seri e s o f m rder s
had ta ken p l a ce .
and to th i s da y hav e sti l l
remain ed n s o lv ed .
What can y o  tel l me
abo t th e S l a s h er?
Wel l . th i s g y
i s rea l sma rt .
We ' v e cov ered
1 3 m rder s to f a r .
h e ha s n ' t l e f t s
a s ing l e c l  e we can se .
Th ink we ' l l
see an y a cti o n toda y?
No wa y
o f tel l ing that .
Th i s g y i s c ra z y.
j st c ra z y.
h e ' s g ot a l l th e peop l e
in th e street
j st sca red s h i tl e s s .
Wel l y o  two an swered th e ca l l
o n th e l a st v i ctim. ri ght?
Yeah .
nl  c ky 1 3 .
Are th ere
an y s spects ?
No n e .
Th i s g y. h i s MGO .
i t ' s a l l sc rewed p .
Ha l f th e time h e s l a s h e s
h i s v i ctim ' s th ro at .
and th e oth er ha l f
th e time h e g o e s ah ead
and di smember s
th e wh o l e body .
I do n ' t kn ow .
I g e s s i t depends
o n h ow m ch time h e ' s g ot .
Tel l me abo t y o  r ca l l o n
v i ctim 1 3 i f y o  wi l l . p l ea se .
Wel l . we had a n ew s c rew
wi th s that ni ght . to o .
We re spo nded to a ca l l
f rom an el ectri ca l bs in e s s .
We g ot th ere . we f o nd
a b l a c k ma l e abo t 3 5 .
h e had h i s
th ro at ct .
At l ea st h e wa s
a l l in o n e pi ece .
We g ot an oth er o n e h ere .
s ame MGO .
J e s s Ch ri st .
God. i t ' s co l d
o t h ere .
God. I ' d l i ke to g et
my hands o n that s  c ker .
Di d y o  g et
an y wi tn e s se s ?
No .
Lo o ks l i ke
h e di ed in stantl y .
A h omi ci da l mani a c
had ki l l ed 1 3 v i ctims .
Th ere co l d n ev er be
j sti f i cati o n f o r m rder .
bt what sto od o t abo t
th i s pa rti cl a r set o f c rime s
i s that th e
v i ctims were po o r .
v a g rant win o s .
wh o had both ered n obody
ex cept f o r o n e man .
a p s y ch oti c ki l l er
wh o wa s seeking s ome kind
o f di sto rted rev eng e .
S o th e peop l e
o f th e ci ty ' s bower y
were f o rced to l iv e in a
commni ty p l a g ed wi th death .
No matter h ow into xi cated
th e se win o s became .
th ey sti l l co l d n ot f o rg et
that a m rderer
wa s l  r king in th ei r
v er y mi dst .
I ' m th e o n e
that ca l l ed in .
I j st f o nd
my bddy.
h e ' s dead ov er th ere
in that dmp ster .
GOh . s h o ot . wh ere ?
GOv er in th e
dmp ster th ere .
Ta ke a l o o k .
GOh . s h i t .
Th ere ' s g otta be l i ke
th ree o r f o  r bodi e s in th ere .
I t ' s ml tip l e
th i s time .
Th e tran s i ent re s i dents
o f th i s inn er ci ty
were o n ce a g ain reminded
o f th ei r extreme expo s  re
to v i o l ent death .
I rea l l y
can ' t bel i ev e i t .
H o n e stl y. I rea l l y
Are y o  sca red
abo t th e S l a s h er?
I am a f rai d o f th i s g y.
th e S l a s h er .
Wh en wa s th e f i r st time
y o  n oti ced h e wa s mi s s ing?
Abo t th ree da y s .
I hav en ' t seen h im
f o r th ree da y s .
Di d y o  wo r r y.
o r wa s that --
No . n o . drinking and
that th ere y o  do n ' t wo r r y .
Um. I do n ' t kn ow .
I j st --
I j st do n ' t
kn ow wh ere to t rn .
I j st h ope
th ey catch h im .
Yeah . me . to o . man .
I t wo l d be a g o od th ing
i f th ey di d catch h im.
wo l dn ' t hav e a l l th i s tro b l e
o n th e streets . y o  kn ow .
Yeah .
Th ey ' l l catch h im
s o o n er o r l ater .
Di d h e l o o k a l l ri ght
l a st time
y o  s aw h im?
GOh . y eah .
h e l o o ked rea l g o od .
GO ka y .
And y o  hav en ' t seen h im
at a l l in th ree da y s ?
Not in th ree da y s .
n o .
No . n ot o f f-hand . . .
Wh en i s th e l a st time
y o  s aw h im?
Abo t th ree
da y s a g o .
I to l d h im n ot to g o o t
drinking o r an yth ing
beca se that man
wa s o t th ere .
th e o n e wh o
ki l l s ev er ybody .
Bt h e went o t
drinking an ywa y .
I tri ed to ta ke h im to deto x .
bt h e wo l dn ' t g o .
And th e l a st th ing
h e g av e me wa s th e dog .
And n ow
h e ' s g o n e .
H ow do y o  f eel
abo t th i s ?
Ver y p set .
I h ope th ey catch
wh o ev er di d i t .
and ma ke h im pa y
f o r what h e di d .
I to l d h im n ot to g o o t
drinking . n ow h e ' s g o n e .
I s at a ro nd f o r a l o ng
time and I rn th e s ki ds .
I ' v e been in
a l ot o f bean l in e s .
I had a f ri end wh o
wa s rnning wi th me
and h e to o k o f f
o n e ni ght .
I sent h im o t
to g et a s h o rt dog .
h e n ev er
come ba c k .
He ended p
in a dmp ster .
and h e g ot ct p
p retty bad .
I h ope th ey
catch th e g y.
and I kn ow I can ' t
s a y n oth ing di rty abo t h im.
bt I wi s h ed
I co l d .
I j st h ope h e ' s
p ro d o f h imsel f .
and wh en th ey
catch h im
I h ope th ey pt h im
in th e g a s chamber .
that ' s a l l
I can s a y .
I ' m sca red.
I ' m v er y sca red .
And I kn ow h e do e s n ' t
kn ow wh ere I l iv e .
and i t
do e s n ' t matter
beca se I ' v e been l iv ing
o n th e s ki ds .
I co l d sta y in an y dmp ster
o r an y s ki d an ywh ere .
Bt h e ' l l f ind s omeo n e .
and what h e do e s . h e ' s s i c k .
He ' s v er y s i c k .
Wh en th e pea ce f l
commni ty o f Ca stl e Bea ch
became a sta g e f o r a seri e s
o f tra g i c m rder s
o f y o ng .
teen a g e g i r l s .
th e peop l e o f th i s sma l l town
were f o rced to l iv e
in a co n stant
f ea r o f death .
Th e di scov er y o f an oth er
v i ctim s o o n ma r ked
th e co n c l ding chapter
o f o n e man ' s ki l l ing sp ree .
H ow man y
do y o  see ?
I t l o o ks l i ke
f iv e o r s i x .
Let me g o a ro nd
th e oth er s i de o f th e body .
H ow l o ng y o  f i g re
s h e ' s been down h ere ?
Wel l .
f rom th e l o o k.
I wo l d s a y
abo t f o  r da y s .
Wel l . wa s th i s g i r l
ki l l ed in th e s ame wa y?
Wel l . at th i s time
we can ' t be s  re .
bt th e MGO
appea r s to be th e s ame .
I s s h e th e s ame a g e
a s th e oth er o n e s ?
Wel l . s h e ' s
a f ema l e GO ri enta l .
appea r s to be
in h er ea r l y twenti e s .
GOth er than that . we hav e
n o oth er po s i tiv e I D .
Wa s s h e beaten and stabbed
l i ke th e oth er g i r l s ?
A th i s time .
I can ' t divl g e
an y in f o rmati o n
reg a rding that .
Wel l . what ' s g o nn a be do n e
abo t th e se m rder s ?
Wel l . do y o  hav e an y s imi l a r
l eads to th e oth er m rder s ?
Gentl emen . ex cse me
at th i s time .
th ere wi l l be n o
f  rth er  e sti o n s .
Th i s a f tern o o n I ' m s  re
th ere wi l l be a tota l
p re s s co n f eren ce
an swering a l l y o  r  e sti o n s .
I t wo l d be th e l a st
c rime th e p s y ch oti c ki l l er
wo l d ev er commi t .
Wi th in a week. h e wo l d be
a r re sted in h i s own apa rtment .
wh ere po l i ce
wo l d di scov er ev i den ce
o f a mo st
f ea r f l n at re .
Bt an ev en g reater
f ea r i s death .
Unti l h i s capt re .
Mi ke Lo ren z o kept th e women
o f Ca stl e Bea ch in
a perpet a l state o f f ea r .
. . . an a r re st wa r rant . I went
to 7 3 2 1 J o hn s o n Av en  e
wh ere I a r re sted th e man
seated at th e tab l e .
Yo  made
th e a r re st?
Ye s . I di d .
Wa s a sea rch made
o f th e de f endant ' s per s o n
o r p remi se s
at that time ?
Ye s . th ere wa s .
And what di d
y o  f ind?
Yo  r H o n o r . I obj ect to th i s
enti re l in e o f  e sti o ning
rel ating to th e sea rch
o f th e de f endant ' s
per s o n o r p remi se s .
That sea rch wa s
in v i o l ati o n
o f th e f o  rth
and f o  rteenth amendments
o f th e Co n sti tti o n .
Co n sel . y o  a re awa re that
th i s i s n ot th e p roper time
to ma ke s  ch
obj ecti o n s .
Yo  a re ov er rl ed .
P ro ceed .
Thank y o  .
y o  r H o n o r .
GO f f i cer . wo l d y o
p l ea se tel l th e co  rt
what wa s f o nd
d ring th e sea rch?
I f o nd a v i deo ca s sette
and s i x Po l a ro i d sti l l s .
Yo  r H o n o r . at th i s time I
wo l d l i ke th e v i deo ca s sette
to be i denti f i ed
a s S tate E xh ibi t A.
and th e s i x sti l l s
to be i denti f i ed
a s E xh ibi ts B
th ro gh G .
S o o rdered .
At th i s time .
y o  r H o n o r .
I wo l d l i ke to s h ow th e v i deo
ca s sette to th e Co  rt .
Yo  ma y p ro ceed .
Mi ke Lo ren z o
ended h i s rei gn o f ter ro r
b y commi tting s i ci de
in th e co  rtro om h o l ding cel l .
Ta king h i s l i f e
b y h i s own hand
wa s ea s i er than f a cing
s o ci ety ' s retribti o n .
S o ci o l og i sts a re in
g en era l a g reement
th e dyn ami c s o f a ci ty a re
h i gh l y co nd ctiv e to c rime .
Wh en a per s o n i s f o rced
to l iv e in a wo r l d
wh ere ov er-c rowded s i dewa l ks
and th e co ntin  a l s o nd
o f tra f f i c p rev ent ev en
a b ri e f moment o f repo se .
an emoti o n a l reta l i ati o n
wi l l ev ent a l l y happen .
S  ch wa s th e ca se
o f L ca s Wa s h ingto n .
an n emp l o y ed f a cto r y wo r ker
wh o co l d n o l o ng er
dea l wi th th e ci ty
in wh i ch h e l iv ed .
Eipped wi th
an M- 1 ri f l e .
h e dec l a red wa r
f rom h i s apa rtment window
o n th e ci ty
o f New Yo r k .
Hey. g et p h ere .
Do n ' t wo r r y abo t i t .
do n ' t wo r r y abo t i t .
I t ' s a l l ov er .
J st g o o t
in th e ha l l .
Yo  a l l ri ght?
Yeah .
Al l ri ght .
Let ' s j st . i t ' s a l l ri ght .
do n ' t g et to o s ha ky .
S i c k peop l e
in th i s ci ty .
Ma ' am. can y o  tel l s
what happen ed?
Can y o  tel l s
A y o ng f ema l e h o sta g e
man a g ed to s  rv iv e
th e s h o ot-o t between
Wa s h ingto n and th e po l i ce .
S  f f ering extreme
emoti o n a l tra ma .
th i s inn o cent b y stander i s
sti l l nder p s y ch i atri c ca re .
I n th e a f termath
o f th i s h ein o s c rime .
s h e wi l l be p l a g ed
wi th h o r rib l e ni ghtma re s
f o r mo nth s
to come .
No o n e wi l l ev er nder stand
th e rea l rea s o n
beh ind L ca s Wa s h ingto n ' s
v i o l ent o tb r st .
Wh en a man i s f o rced
to l o se h i s p ri de
and sen se o f
sel f re spect .
rev eng e become s
h i s o nl y a l tern ativ e .
GOt o f f eel ing s o f
in sec ri ty and f ea r .
h e mst f ind
a n ew co  r se
to reg ain
a f eel ing o f impo rtan ce .
I f th e death o f oth er s
become s a mean s to that end.
tra g edy f o l l ow s .
Th e peop l e o f th i s
n ei ghbo rh o od in New Yo r k C i ty
wi l l a lwa y s remember
th e e f f ects L ca s Wa s h ingto n
had o n
th ei r commni ty .
Th e n a s s ming wi l dern e s s o f
S o th ern F l o ri da ' s Ev erg l ade s
i s th e entr y po rt
o f 7 0 percent o f a l l ma ri j  an a
and co cain e impo rted
into th e Uni ted S tate s
b y p l an e
and bo at .
To a v i s i to r .
th e Ev erg l ade s remain
an nb l emi s h ed
wi l dl i f e p re serv e .
bt drg smg g l ing i s th i s
reg i o n ' s maj o r indstr y .
Th e a rea i s s o v a st
that th e a ct a l chan ce
o f capt ring a drg smg g l er
i s h i gh l y nl i kel y .
Bt wh en ni ght f a l l s . nder
th e l i ght o f th e f l l mo o n .
th e in c rea sed
tra f f i c b y th e smg g l er s
a f f o rds l aw
en f o rcement o f f i cer s
a g reater
chan ce o f s  cce s s .
Th ere th ey a re .
Al th o gh i t wi l l
be a l o ng time be f o re
th e se two men
a g ain smg g l e drg s .
th ey rep re sent
o nl y a min te percenta g e
o f th e drg
tra f f i c king commni ty .
Th e mang rov e can a l s
o f s o th ern F l o ri da
a re an oth er h eav y a rea o f
drg tran spo rt and receiv ing .
Wh en a n ew s team
a ccompani ed pa r k rang er s
wh o were f o l l owing p a tip
o f an a l l eg ed drg pi c k p .
a rea l l i f e
h man drama n f o l ded .
We a re n ow
app ro a ch ing b o y 2 8 .
Hey. Dav e . l o o k. that l o o ks
l i ke o  r bo at ov er th ere .
Th i s i s th e
F l o ri da S tate Rang er .
y o  a re nder a r re st .
stop y o  r eng in e
and p l a ce y o  r hands
ov er y o  r h ead .
H o l y s h i t . th o se ba sta rds
a re coming ri ght at s .
Yo  g y s sta y down
and h o l d ti ght .
Centra l . th i s i s
P atro l 3 X-Ra y Tang o . . .
two s spects a re h eav i l y a rmed
and hav e f i red o n o  r bo at .
Rog er P atro l 3
X-Ra y Tang o .
addi ti o n a l ni ts hav e been
a l erted and a re p ro ceeding . . .
Yo  n ew s bo y s
keep y o  r selv e s down .
Th ey ' re s l owing down .
I ' v e g ot th e
driv er cov ered .
GO ka y. o ka y.
bt keep a c l o se ey e o n th em .
Keep y o  r hands
in th e ai r .
Now ta ke y o  r ri ght hand
and t rn o f f y o  r eng in e .
Centra l . th i s i s P atro l
3 X Tang o .
we hav e s spects in cstody
and a re p ro ceeding
wi th a sea rch
o f th e bo at .
GOn e s spect i s wo nded
and po s s ib l y dead .
Adv i se emerg en c y ni t .
Keep y o  r hands
o n top o f y o  r h ead .
Tang o . ba c k-p
and emerg en c y ni ts
a re p ro ceeding
to y o  r  adrant .
Af ter a
h i gh- speed cha se .
th e drg o f f ender s
were a r re sted .
Th e o f f i cer s s  f f ered
n o ca s  a l ti e s .
bt o n e o f th e smg g l er s
wa s ki l l ed .
Th i s pa rti cl a r bst
re s l ted in o n e o f th e l a rg e st
co cain e co n f i scati o n s
in F l o ri da h i sto r y .
Th e co ntraband
di scov ered o n th i s bo at
had a street v a l  e
o f $ 1 0 mi l l i o n .
I n th i s a rea
o f th e state .
abo t o n e-th i rd o f m rder s
and death s a re drg rel ated .
La st y ea r . l aw
en f o rcement o f f i ci a l s
sei z ed 3 . 2 mi l l i o n
po nds o f ma ri j  an a
wi th a street v a l  e
o f $ 1 . 3 bi l l i o n .
Th e mo st dang ero s
drg o f a l l i s n ot co cain e .
bt o n e man  f a ct red ri ght
h ere in th e Uni ted S tate s .
I t i s ca l l ed PC P .
My n ame i s
Dr . S tev en Lern er .
I am a c l ini ca l re sea rch er
in th e a rea o f drg s o f abse .
Fo r th e l a st
s i x y ea r s
my a s s o ci ate s and I
hav e been stdying
th e drg PC P .
PC P i s a v er y
dang ero s drg .
PC P wa s o ri g in a l l y
dev el oped b y P a r k Dav i s
in th e mi d 1 9 5 0 s
a s a s  rg i ca l an e sth eti c .
and beca se o f th e adv er se
rea cti o n s in h man s .
th e c l ini ca l stdi e s
were di sco ntin  ed
in th e mi d s i xti e s .
and th e drg wa s
ta ken o f f th e ma r ket .
S in ce that time . we ' v e
been seeing i ts se i l l i ci tl y.
n ot o nl y in
th e Uni ted S tate s .
bt in
f o rei gn co ntri e s .
PC P ser s a re o f tentime s
b ro ght to medi ca l setting s
beca se o f adv er se rea cti o n s
wh ere f ami l i e s . f ri ends .
l aw en f o rcement
ma y become inv o lv ed .
Man y time s . in o rder to
s bd e th e v i o l ent PC P ser .
i t ma y ta ke a s man y a s
s i x o r ei ght l a rg e o f f i cer s .
Fo r that rea s o n . th ey ma y n eed
to be re strain ed o r medi cated .
Co l d we hav e s ome
h elp o t h ere ?
Get o t o f th e wa y.
g et o t o f th e wa y .
Goddamn .
th i s g y i s bi g .
Lo c k h im in h ere .
Not g o ing . n ot g o ing .
Goddamn i t .
g et ba c k ov er h ere .
Leav e me a l o n e .
Get h im o n
th e g rn ey .
F c ker s .
l eav e me a l o n e . . .
g et y o  r hands
o f f me . . .
s o n o f a bi tch .
l eav e me a l o n e .
Let me g o .
Al l ri ght .
mov e th e stretch er .
Let me g o .
Mov e th e stretch er
ov er th ere .
F c ker s .
Watch h i s f eet .
watch h i s f eet .
Al l ri ght . n ow .
l et ' s h o l d th e wri sts p . . .
open that do o r .
GOpen that do o r .
Get th e damn do o r .
GOpen th e do o r .
Wh ere a re y o
ta king me ?
Th i s i s f iv e mi l l i g rams
o f PC P .
Typi ca l l y. PC P i s smo ked.
p rima ri l y o n l ea f materi a l .
Fo r s omeo n e that wo l d
ta ke o n e o r two inha l ati o n s
o n a j o int
l a ced wi th PC P .
th e e f f ects wo l d come o n
wi th in o n e to f iv e min te s .
th e drg wo l d pea k o r p l atea
wi th in 1 5 to 3 0 min te s .
th e per s o n wo l d sta y h i gh
f o r f o  r to s i x h o  r s .
And o rdin a ri l y i t wo l d
ta ke 2 4 to 4 8 h o  r s
nti l th e per s o n
ret rn ed to n o rma l .
That ' s sed
o n e time o nl y .
Fo r th e ch ro ni c PC P ser .
th e per s o n that se s
at l ea st th ree da y s per week
f o r a minimm
o f th ree mo nth s .
i t ma y ta ke an ywh ere
f rom sev era l mo nth s
to sev era l y ea r s
nti l th e per s o n a g ain
ret rn s to n o rma l .
PC P ser s ma y exh ibi t a l tering
state s o f co n sci o s n e s s
wh ere th ey ma y appea r
to be a l ert and o ri ented
at o n e po int
in time .
to be seen
sev era l seco nds l ater
wh ere th ey ma y be
combativ e o r ev en v i o l ent .
Get o t wi th th i s
f  c king camera . wh o a re y o ?
Get th i s camera
o t o f h ere .
H ow y o  do ing . Wi l l i e ?
Get that camera o t o f h ere .
y o  ' re n ot ta king my pi ct re .
Now . I want y o
to drink th i s p .
I ain ' t ta king that s h i t .
Now . i t ' s g o od f o r y o  .
Wi l l i e . come o n .
Get th e f  c k o t o f h ere . . .
I ' m g o nn a hav e to
ca lm y o  down . Wi l l i e .
Ta ke th e medi cin e .
I t ' s g o od f o r y o  .
Ta ke i t a l l th e wa y down .
a l l th e wa y down .
Ta ke s ome mo re .
Al l th e wa y .
Now swa l l ow i t .
swa l l ow i t . Wi l l i e .
GO ka y .
B i l l y. y o  see
what th ey di d.
what di d th ey do
that f o r . B i l l y?
What di d th ey
do that f o r?
We ' re g o ing to g iv e y o
an inj ecti o n . o l d man .
an inj ecti o n . . .
I want y o  r s h o l der
ba c k h ere .
Rel ax .
I want y o  r s h o l der
ba c k h ere .
Ca lm down .
ca lm down .
Wh en th i s man awa ken s
f rom h i s drg stpo r .
h e wi l l o n ce a g ain
hav e to f a ce a rea l i ty
wh i ch h e f ea red
and tri ed to f o rg et .
Th e se o f drg s
b y th e g en era l popl a ce
ha s in c rea sed dramati ca l l y
in th e l a st two decade s .
Wh en s o ci ety ha s to n mb
i tsel f a g ain st
an ev er y da y exi sten ce .
a  e st f o r medi cati o n
become s a s btl e wa y
o f commi tting s i ci de .
Th ere i s l i ttl e do bt that
wh en th i s man ' s f ea r s ret rn .
h e wi l l ren ew h i s h i gh
wi th an o l d f ri end. PC P . . .
th e ' ang el o f death . '
Fo r th o se wh o s  f f er
f rom a c roph obi a .
th e f ea r o f h ei ghts .
th e th o ght o f pa ra ch ting
o t o f an ai rp l an e
wo l d be in s an e .
Fo r 1 5 y ea r s . Bob GOster
ha s been a stnt ph otog raph er
speci a l i z ing in
a eri a l ph otog raph y .
He c l imbs o nto th e wing
strt in p repa rati o n
f o r f i lming a
pa ra ch ting competi ti o n .
Th e pi l ot h o l ds th e p l an e
steady nti l h e ' s in po s i ti o n .
Th e f i r st man o t
i s Ma r k Adams . a n ov i ce .
in competi ti o n
f o r th e f i r st time .
GOster f o l l ow s h im in o rder
to f i lm h i s a eri a l man ev er s .
Th e obj ect o f f ree
f a l l competi ti o n
i s to l and
in a de s i gn ated a rea .
Th e f i r st competi to r
to h i t th i s a rea
two o t o f th ree time s .
win s th e ev ent .
I n h i s f i r st
p ro f e s s i o n a l j mp .
Adams l anded
di rectl y o n th e ma r k .
Adams ret rn ed
to h i s c rew
and receiv ed
th ei r co ng ratl ati o n s .
As h e po sed
f o r ph otog raph s .
h e appea red co n f i dent
abo t h i s n ext j mp .
Th e c rew ca re f l l y
p repa red h i s g ea r
f o r th e seco nd j mp
o f th e da y .
Wh en j mping o t o f a p l an e .
3 5 0 0 f eet abov e th e g ro nd.
a pa ra ch ti st i s tota l l y
dependent po n h i s eipment .
Af ter receiv ing a ki s s
f o r g o od l  c k.
Adams i s o n ce a g ain ai rbo rn e
f o r a seco nd j mp .
Wh en a stro ng gst
o f wind beg an to b l ow Adams
o f f ta rg et .
h i s c rew .
co n cern ed f o r h i s s a f ety.
beg an to cha se
th e dri f ting pa ra ch te s .
Ceci l C l emmo n s .
th e own er o f Gato rama .
remember s that
tra g i c da y .
Th e mo st ter rib l e th ing
that I hav e ev er wi tn e s sed
wa s o n e ev ening
I come o t o n th e pati o
and I see th i s man
coming down in a pa ra ch te .
And h e l anded ri ght
in th e c ro c k pi t .
And h e j st made
o n e bi g sc ream.
and th e mo st
h o r rib l e l o o king f a ce
y o  ev er seen o n
a h man being .
that wa s h im .
And be f o re
I co l d g et an y h elp .
o r an y wa y to g et
h im o t o f th ere .
th ey had pl l ed h im
to s h reds .
G rab h i s l eg s .
GOh . s h i t .
l o o k what th ey do n e to h im .
Th ere wa s n oth ing
I co l d do .
an ybody co l d do .
Adams had l anded o n a ta rg et
wh i ch th i s time
wo l d co st h im
h i s l i f e .
I f i r st v i s i ted th e co ntr y
o f E l S a lv ado r 2 0 y ea r s a g o .
At that time .
th ere wa s h ope
that th i s
Centra l Ameri can n ati o n
wo l d become a g reat
a l l y o f th e Uni ted S tate s .
Un f o rtn atel y. i t wa s
a s h o rt-l iv ed dream.
f o r th i s co ntr y
i s n ow in a state o f
tota l po l i ti ca l an a rch y .
S i tting h ere .
y o  wo l d th ink ev er yth ing
i s pea ce f l and seren e .
bt what y o  do n ' t see
i s a 1 5- f o ot wa l l
s  r ro nding
th i s p roperty .
Wh en i t become s dang ero s
to l eav e y o  r h o se a f ter da r k
beca se o f a v i rt a l
wa r in th e streets .
y o  r own l i f e
ta ke s o n n ew meaning .
That i s th e ba s i c rea s o n wh y
I came ba c k to E l S a lv ado r .
What I hav e l ea rn ed
i s that po l i ti ca l i dea l s
a re mo re impo rtant
than h man l i f e .
Un f o rtn atel y f o r
th e i l l i terate pea s ants
and th e ch i l dren
o f th i s co ntr y.
i t i s th e men
wi th gn s
that deci de
th ei r po l i ti ca l de stin y .
I n E l S a lv ado r .
to rt re i s a commo n techni  e
sed to obtain
in f o rmati o n f rom p ri s o n er s .
Th e mi l i ta r y reco rds
th e se se s s i o n s
f o r th ei r p riv ate f i l e s . and
o cca s i o n a l l y. pb l i c di sp l a y .
Ca r l o s Ma rin o wa s a man
wh o happen ed to be
in th e ri ght p l a ce
at th e wro ng time .
A seeming l y ro tin e
inv e sti g ati o n
had become a h o r rib l e
ni ghtma re f o r Ca r l o s .
Th e meth ods o f
extra cting in f o rmati o n
a re a s o l d a s
civ i l i z ati o n i tsel f ;
c rde . bt e f f ectiv e .
Wh en Ca r l o s di d n ot re spo nd to
th e inter rog ati o n techni  e s .
th e pain
wa s in c rea sed .
Th e aim wa s to l o o sen
h i s to ng e
th ro gh a combin ati o n
o f pain and f ea r .
( Spani s h spea king )
Th e merci l e s s  e sti o ning
co ntin  ed f o r h o  r s .
and sti l l th e
n co operativ e p ri s o n er
re f sed to g iv e
th e p roper an swer s .
A n ew set o f techni  e s
had to be emp l o y ed.
bt f i r st an n co n sci o s
Ca r l o s had to be rev iv ed .
Bt ev en in a
semi- stpo r .
Ca r l o s wa s n ab l e to p rov i de
th e n eeded in f o rmati o n .
Tota l l y di s o ri ented
and ra c ked wi th pain .
Ca r l o s wa s indeed a v er y b rav e
man . o r tota l l y inn o cent .
f o r f ew peop l e co l d
wi th stand th i s ter rib l e
a g o n y wi th o t c ra c king .
Th e s  rv iv a l
o f a ter ro ri st reg ime
i s dependent
po n sec rec y .
Th e f ai l  re o f th e
inter rog ati o n o f Ca r l o s Ma rin o
co l d o nl y be
re s o lv ed in o n e wa y.
f o r th ere co l d be
n o wi tn e s se s .
No o n e wi l l ev er kn ow i f
Ca r l o s wa s indeed gi l ty .
My f ri end.
Al f redo Ga r rob .
ha s n ev er wanted to mov e o t
o f th i s wa r-ri dden co ntr y .
He ha s a f i rm bel i e f that
s ome kind o f po l i ti ca l
moderati o n wi l l
be rea ch ed .
I h ope s o
f o r h i s s a ke .
As f o r me . I ' v e j st co n f i rmed
my p l an e re serv ati o n s
to th e
Uni ted S tate s .
I mst co n f e s s I f eel
a bi t o t o f p l a ce h ere .
I do n ' t spea k Spani s h . and
I do n ' t hav e an y de s i re to di e
in a wa r in wh i ch
I am n ot inv o lv ed .
Bt I do hav e to admi t
th ere ' s o n e th ing I ' l l mi s s ;
Al f redo ' s
h omemade tei l a .
Lo ng l iv e
th e rev o l ti o n .
GOn J n e 1 . 1 97 9 . po l i ce
re spo nded to a ph o n e tip
that a bomb had been
p l a ced at th e h ome
o f a recentl y de f ected
Rs s i an a rti st .
Time wa s o f
th e e s sen ce .
f o r th e l iv e s o f
th e se p ro f e s s i o n a l s
were at th e
merc y o f a bomb
that co l d exp l ode
at an y g iv en seco nd .
Th ere co l d be
n o ro om f o r pani c .
P ati en ce wa s th e key to th ei r
s  cce s s and th ei r s  rv iv a l .
Let ' s ch ec k
th e pi t o t .
We hav e
an a l ert h ere .
S ad. we
hav e an a l ert .
Fea ring that th e
exp l o s iv e dev i ce mi ght
deto n ate at an y moment .
th e Bomb S ad
had n o ch o i ce
bt to di s a rm i t
o n th e p remi se s .
A rein f o rced steel s h i el d
wa s erected
to p rotect
th e Bomb S ad observ er s
and th e n ew s cameraman .
GO ka y. we hav e
a de str ctiv e dev i se .
sev en sti c ks
o f Hercl e s dyn ami te .
two batter y s pp l i e s .
a Q a rtz c l o c k atta ch ed
to an a rming dev i ce .
I ' m g o nn a tr y and pl l
th e b l a sting cap . . .
g o ing f o r th e
b l a sting cap n ow .
Bomb S ad member s a re f a ced
wi th death o n a dai l y ba s i s .
B i l l Reyn o l ds had o f ten
exp re s sed h i s f ea r o f death
at a bomb
exp l oding in h i s hands .
GOn th i s
v er y da y.
B i l l ' s g reate st f ea r
became a tra g i c rea l i ty
a s h e experi en ced
h i s own f a ce o f death .
Th ro gh th e mi d 1 9 6 0 s
to th e ea r l y 1 97 0 s .
Ameri ca wa s inv o lv ed
in a wa r
that ha s n ev er rea l l y
been nder sto od .
Th e l o ca l e
wa s Vi etn am .
A co ntr y div i ded
b y civ i l wa r .
h oping to p rev ent
th e sp read o f commni sm.
th e Uni ted S tate s
set p a ba se o f operati o n s
in th e ci ty
o f S ai g o n .
wh ere Ameri can s teamed
wi th S o th Vi etn ame se
to de stro y
th e dreaded Vi etco ng .
Un f o rtn atel y. th i s wa s
a wa y wh i ch n obody co l d win .
Fo r f iv e y ea r s .
C l i f f Freedman had been
a n ew s cameraman in Vi etn am .
H i s dramati c f o ota g e o f th e
wa r had b ro ght h im awa rds
a s wel l
a s recogni ti o n .
Man y time s h e wo l d ri s k h i s
l i f e to g et that extra s h ot
that had made
h i s ph otog raph y s o ni  e .
Freedman n ev er ca r ri ed
a gn d ring h i s ten  re
a s a cameraman
in Vi etn am .
I f h e ev er had
a f ea r o f dying .
th i s f o ota g e wa s
a te stament to h i s co  ra g e .
I n s l ow moti o n .
y o  ' l l be ab l e to wi tn e s s
th e f in a l f rame
o f C l i f f Freedman ' s l i f e .
Al th o gh Freedman
capt red th e l a st moments
o f h i s l i f e o n cel l l o i d.
th ere a re oth er s wh o c l aim
that th ey hav e reco rded
a menta l ima g e
o f th ei r own death .
I f eel v er y strang e
ta l king abo t th i s
beca se i t wa s a
v er y per s o n a l experi en ce .
I had to g o to th e h o spi ta l .
and I f el t v er y m ch a l o n e .
I wa s hav ing open
h ea rt s  rg er y .
GOn e o f th e g reate st
h ope s we a l l s ha re
i s th e po s s ibi l i ty
o f l i f e a f ter death .
Th e eni gma o f death
ha s remain ed
an n an swered  e sti o n
s in ce th e beg inning
o f time .
I f th ere ev er wa s
o n e niv er s a l f ea r .
i t wo l d hav e to be
th e f ea r o f death .
Th e ca se o f Ma r y S tev en s ma y
s omeh ow s h ed a n ew v i ewpo int
o n th i s seeming l y
n s o lv ab l e my ster y .
My h ea rt stopped. I
wa s dead f o r sev era l min te s .
and I di dn ' t kn ow
what wa s happening .
Ev er yth ing abo t me
wa s b ri ght red. and I th o ght .
I ' m dead. dea r God
in h eav en . I ' m dead .
I came o t o f th e red
into a wh i te l i ght .
s ddenl y I f el t
v er y s a f e .
I s aw my h sband.
I mi s s h im ter rib l y .
I wa s s o happ y .
My s i ster Gl o ri a wa s th ere .
th e peop l e I l ov e .
ev en my be st f ri end.
o h . God. i t wa s wo nder f l .
Th en I s aw my s o n .
h e wa s ki l l ed in Vi etn am.
and h e l o o ked j st ex a ctl y
th e wa y I remember h im .
I rea l l y wanted
to sta y th ere .
bt I wo ke p in th e h o spi ta l
and I wa s in ter rib l e pain .
And I ' m g l ad to be a l iv e .
beca se th ere ' s s o man y th ing s
I n eed to do
and want to do .
Bt I ' m n ot a f rai d to di e
an y mo re beca se th ere ' s --
I kn ow that I ' l l be
wi th th e peop l e I l ov e
in th e a f ter l i f e .
Th i s i s th e po l i ce .
do n ot j mp .
repeat .
GOn a ha z y sp ring
a f tern o o n in 1 97 9 .
Frank Ma yn a rd wa s f a ced wi th
th e l timate deci s i o n ;
wh eth er o r n ot
to ta ke h i s own l i f e .
Af ter being o t o f wo r k
f o r sev era l mo nth s .
and f a ced
wi th div o rce .
Ma yn a rd deci ded s i ci de
wa s h i s o nl y e scape .
As h i s wi f e a r riv ed
o n th e scen e .
po l i ce f el t co n f i dent
s h e co l d deter
h i s de stin y wi th death .
Do y o  hav e an y i dea
wh y h e ' s do ing th i s ?
Do y o  th ink
y o  co l d g o --
do y o  th ink y o
co l d g o ta l k to h im?
I do n ' t kn ow wh y
h e ' s do ing th i s .
Come o n . come o n .
g et h er p h ere .
I s h e o n drg s
o r s ometh ing?
Get h er p th ere .
Come o n .
g et h er p th ere .
Po s ing a s
a mainten an ce man .
Ma yn a rd had g ain ed a cce s s
to th e l edg e .
At f i r st h i s own f ea r
o f death p rev ented tra g edy .
Coming th ro gh .
coming th ro gh .
I ' m g o nn a do i t . . .
Liv ing in a
comp l ex wo r l d.
we mst hav e
at o  r command
mean s that a re ade ate
to dea l wi th th e comp l exi ty .
I f th i s do e s n ot o cc r .
a g rav e imba l an ce re s l ts .
Th i s pa rti cl a r f a ce
o f death re s l ted
wh en Frank ' s a cti o n s
ov ercame h i s rati o n a l mind .
Wel l . i t s o nded l i ke
a l i ttl e sp l a s h .
a s i de o f l iv er h i tting
th e f l o o r wh en y o  drop i t .
Yo  kn ow . kind o f a sp l a s h .
kind o f g o o ey l i ke .
y o  kn ow
what I mean .
Th e n eg ativ e v o i ce s
wh i ch had bec ko n ed Ma yn a rd
re s l ted in
sel f anni h i l ati o n .
Th e p rob l ems h e perceiv ed
coping wi th dai l y exi sten ce
had f in a l l y
been eradi cated .
Th e man . h e j st .
a l l o f a s dden
j st j mped
o t o f th e window .
I di dn ' t kn ow
what wa s g o ing o n .
I wa s j st wa l king b y.
j st g ot a
bottl e o f win e .
And I wa s wa l king b y
and l l I seen h im j mp
wh en that
l ady y el l ed .
I di dn ' t kn ow
what happen ed .
I s aw h i s wi f e
beg g ing h im.
and s h e s ai d do n ' t j mp .
and h e di d .
H s  re had a p rob l em.
that ' s a l l I can tel l y o  .
Al l I see wa s th em
pt th e l ady in th e po l i ce ca r
and ta ke h er awa y .
I g e s s i t
wa s h i s wi f e .
I f death b ro ght pea ce
o f mind to Ma yn a rd.
h i s own sel f i s h deci s i o n
b ro ght s o r row
to th e peop l e wh o l ov ed h im
and th o se wh o watch ed .
What ended a s an av en  e
o f e scape f o r o n e
wo l d ha nt and ca se
ni ghtma re s in th e minds
o f man y .
I wa s p retty di sgsted
wi th th e wa y
that ev er yth ing
went toda y h ere .
Th ere wa s a g y di ed
h ere toda y. y o  kn ow .
H ow ' d y o  f eel
abo t that g y?
H ow di d I f eel
abo t h im.
I wa s a f rai d f o r h i s .
th ere wa s n oth ing I co l d do .
S o y o  rea l l y f ea red
f o r h i s l i f e ?
I di d. y eah .
I f ea red f o r h i s l i f e .
Th ere wa s n oth ing
I co l d do .
Tradi ti o n p l a y s an impo rtant
ro l e in a l l o  r l iv e s .
and th ey ' re
o f ten s ymbo l s
wh i ch a re a s s o ci ated
wi th th e v a ri o s h o l i da y s .
GOn Thanksg iv ing .
i t ' s th e t r key.
at Ch ri stma s .
i t ' s j o l l y o l d S t . Ni c k.
and d ring E a ster
i t ' s th e wh i te rabbi t .
Bt th e E a ster Bnn y
i s n ot o nl y l ov ed
f o r h i s abi l i ty
at h i ding co l o red eg g s .
g o  rmets a ro nd th e wo r l d hav e
dev el oped a v er y speci a l ta ste
f o r th e s ymbo l
o f E a ster .
Lo o k what I f o nd .
GOh . thank y o  . sweeth ea rt .
that ' s v er y ni ce .
that ' s p retty .
Th ere a re a l s o g rown
men wh o l o o k f o rwa rd
to receiv ing
th ei r bnni e s .
bt y o  ' l l see that th ey
hav e oth er th ing s in mind .
I n 1 9 8 0 . 2 mi l l i o n po nds
o f rabbi t meat wa s co n s med
in Lo s Ang el e s Co nty .
To meet th e ev er
g rowing demand.
man y s l a ghter h o se s
th ro gh o t Ameri ca
hav e deci ded to enter
th i s p ro f i tab l e ma r ket .
Th i s pa rti cl a r
s l a ghter h o se
ki l l s an av era g e
o f 6 0 0 rabbi ts a da y .
Th e b y-p rod cts
o f th i s c reat re
b ring h i gh p ri ce s
in man y di f f erent ma r kets .
Rabbi t ' s b l o od i s sed
a s a f i l l er f o r in o cl ati o n s .
i ts b rain i s f ree z e-dri ed f o r
se in v a ri o s medi cati o n s .
Ev en th e ey e s
a re ti l i z ed
f o r pha rma ceti ca l compo nds .
Th ei r h eads and s kin
a re g ro nd
and sed f o r dog
and cat f o od.
wh i l e th ei r paw s a re s o l d
a s g o od l  c k cha rms .
Qi te f rankl y.
I n ev er rea l i z ed
th i s cte l i ttl e c reat re
co l d be sed
in s o man y wa y s .
Th e rabbi t ' s entrai l s a re a l s o
s av ed and sed to f atten h og s .
Th e mo st v a l  ab l e pa rt
o f th i s c reat re i s i ts f  r .
GOn ce th e se pel ts dr y. th ey
wi l l be s o l d to man  f a ct rer s
wh o wi l l c reate expen s iv e
de s i gn er co ats and j a c kets .
S o ends th e s a g a
o f a rabbi t ' s da y
in th e s l a ghter h o se .
Fa st f o od ha s become
a l i f e s av er
f o r th o se
wh o hate to co o k .
As i de f rom th e hamb rg er .
ch i c ken i s o n e o f th e mo st
popl a r f o ods in Ameri ca .
Th e demand f o r th i s bi rd ha s
become s o g reat that in 1 9 8 0 .
4 bi l l i o n ch i c ken s
had to be ki l l ed
to f eed
th e h ng r y ma s se s .
I n th i s pa rti cl a r
s l a ghter h o se .
2 0 . 0 0 0 ch i c ken s
a re ki l l ed a da y
at a rate
o f 2 . 0 0 0 an h o  r .
A speci a l ma ch in e
de- f eath er s th e bi rd
and th e se f eath er s a re th en
s o l d f o r f erti l i z er .
Af ter a wa s h ing p ro ce s s .
th ei r s kin s a re s ing ed
wi th h ot f l ame s
to ki l l an y
extern a l ba cteri a .
Al l o f th e intern a l o rg an s
o f th i s bi rd a re sed .
What cann ot be eaten . wi l l
a l s o be s o l d f o r f erti l i z er .
Th i s a s semb l y l in e
p repa re s a ch i c ken
f o r ma r ketp l a ce
in f iv e min te s .
Wi th in an oth er f iv e min te s .
a h i gh-p re s s  re f r y er
can ready th i s bi rd
f o r h man co n s mpti o n .
Ha l l el j ah . Ameri ca .
Th e l o cati o n f o r th i s f a ce
o f death i s Ban co cha rel Ree f .
o f f th e co a st
o f Y  catan .
Bob GO l s o n wa s an Ameri ca
expatri ate wh o had set p
a sma l l to  ri st
div e bs in e s s .
Hav ing spent sev era l
y ea r s a s a merchant ma rin e .
Bob s imp l y g ot f ed p
wi th what h e ca l l ed
th e Ameri can wa y
o f l i f e .
and re s i t ated
in th e po rt ci ty o f Co z mel .
I t wa s h ere
h e p rcha sed a bo at
and set p speci a l
nderwater to  r s .
Being an experi en ced div er
and av i d trea s  re h nter .
th e ree f p re sented
a per f ect hav en f o r Bob .
He co l d do
what h e l ov ed.
g etting pai d f o r i t
at th e s ame time .
He n ev er ti red o f exp l o ring
th e an ci ent wrec ks
o n th e o cean f l o o r .
Ev er y div e wo l d p re sent a n ew
a rti f a ct and a n ew cha l l eng e .
He wo l d ev en tea ch
to  ri sts h ow to f eed
s ome o f h i s
nderwater f ri ends .
Th ere wa s l i ttl e do bt
Bob wa s a man wh o seemed
to hav e tota l co ntro l
o f th i s a l i en env i ro nment .
Bob wo l d o f ten tel l to  ri sts
be f o re h e to o k th em
o n th i s
nderwater to  r .
that div ing wi th h im
wo l d be a tota l l y
di f f erent experi en ce .
H i s nderwater wo r l d
wa s n ot a h nting g ro nd.
bt in stead and a rea
wh ere peop l e co l d f eed
and stdy th e o cean ' s
ni  e wi l dl i f e .
GO l s o n re spected th e sea .
and in t rn .
h e expected th e sea
to re spect h im .
S ometime s a man wh o
become s to o ov er co n f i dent
co l d be j st a s dang ero s
a s a man wh o f ea r s to o m ch .
Al th o gh th e ba r ra cda
i s n ot co n s i dered
an a g g re s s o r towa rds man .
in th i s
n s  a l in ci dent .
th e f i s h became co n f sed
and bi t GO l s o n o n th e f a ce
wi th h i s ra z o r
s ha rp teeth .
Wri th ing in pain
and in a state o f s h o c k.
th e c rew member s and to  ri sts
wo r ked f ranti ca l l y to s av e
th e wo nded man .
Al th o gh h i s inj  r y
had re s l ted f rom an a cci dent .
i t wa s seri o s en o gh
to n ea r l y co st GO l s o n h i s l i f e .
Lo o k. we g otta g et
s ome towel s down h ere
to stop
th i s b l eeding .
Ta ke th e se towel s
and stop th e b l eeding .
J e s s .
h e ' s g o nn a n eed sti tch e s .
Gee z . i t to re h im p
s o bad .
I s th ere an y g a  z e
in th i s f i r st ai d ki t?
I do n ' t kn ow . man .
He ' s g o ing nder .
we g otta g et th e o x y g en . man .
Can we g et
that o x y g en .
I can ' t stop
th e b l eeding .
GO ka y. p re s s ha rder .
p re s s ha rder .
j st keep i t g o ing . . .
Get th e g a  z e .
g a  z e h ere .
P re s s o n h i s h ead.
p re s s o n h i s h ead .
GO ka y. we ' v e g otta g et
th e Co a st G a rd . . .
GO ka y. h ere .
i t ' s ov er h i s n o se .
GO ka y. come o n . come o n .
c rank i t p . c rank i t p .
Get o n that ph o n e
and g et th e co a st g a rd . . .
Bob GO l s o n receiv ed
7 2 sti tch e s in th e f a ce .
and to th i s da y ha s re f sed
to reenter th e water .
H i s co n f i den ce in a wo r l d
h e had l ov ed s o m ch
ha s been rep l a ced b y a
comp l ete f ea r o f th i s el ement .
He i s c r rentl y
nder my th erap y
and i s ma king
g reat stri de s
towa rd becoming th e man
h e o n ce wa s .
GO l s o n i s l ea rning
th e sca r h e ca r ri e s
mst n ot p rev ent h im
f rom entering a wo r l d
wh i ch h e at o n e time
ado red and ch eri s h ed .
What do y o  th ink
ca sed th i s a cci dent?
Wel l . n f o rtn atel y. th i s i s
p robab l y an oth er ci rcmstan ce
wh ere p robab l y v er y g o od
open water div er s
tri ed a h i gh l y techni ca l
f o rm o f div ing .
wh i ch i s cav e div ing .
and ba s i ca l l y
th rew th ei r l iv e s awa y.
s imp l y beca se th ey
di dn ' t hav e th e p roper
training and eipment .
GO f ten div er s
wi l l ps h th emselv e s .
and th ere ' s
a f in e l in e
between s ometh ing being
stre s s f l and cha l l eng ing .
and f a r to o o f ten
th ey c ro s s that l in e .
A l ot o f time s div er s
that a re ev en s omewhat
a f rai d o f th e water
wi l l s ometime s ps h th emselv e s
j st to see what th ey can do .
Di d s omebody drown?
GO ka y. y o  were
in th e tnn el h ere .
wh i ch i s kind o f
winding a ro nd a l ot?
Yeah .
Yeah . that ' s th e
serpentin e tnn el s .
p robab l y s omewh ere
in th ere .
We g ot rea l l y
s i l ted down I th ink.
and that ' s wh en
I l o st h im .
What ' s th e s i t ati o n?
Wel l . we had two div er s
g o in . and o n e came o t .
Th i s i s Ph i l h ere .
h e came o t and h i s bddy
i s sti l l down
th ere s omewh ere .
Di d h e s a y
what happen ed?
He s a y s h e th inks
th ey were down s omewh ere
in th e serpentin e
tnn el a rea .
What kind o f tanks
wa s h e s ing?
Do y o  kn ow abo t h ow m ch
ai r wa s sti l l in th em?
I t wa s
abo t ha l f .
We co l d anti cipate o n e .
ma ybe two . . .
Yeah . ma ybe o n e mo re .
I th ink ma ybe what we
s h o l d do i s g o in th ere .
ch ec k th i s tnn el o t .
I f we do n ' t f ind h im th ere .
g o ba c k h ere .
l o o k at th i s o n e .
I f we sti l l do n ' t f ind h im.
come o n ba c k h ere .
ma ybe g o ba c k a ro nd
and ch ec k th e se tnn el s o t .
and th i s s i de pa s s a g e .
Cav e div ing
i s perhap s th e mo st
potenti a l l y dang ero s ter rain
a scba enth s i a st
can exp l o re .
Th ere i s a ri g i d set o f rl e s
wh i ch mst be f o l l owed
be f o re o n e enter s
th i s env i ro nment .
No amo nt o f p rev i o s
open water experi en ce
can p repa re a per s o n
f o r cav e div ing .
I n th i s n commo n setting .
th e ha z a rds a re man y .
Fo r ex amp l e . wh en div ing
in th i s co n f in ed a rea .
th e cav e cei l ing re stri cts
di rect a cce s s to th e s  r f a ce .
s o a div er i s ev en mo re
dependent po n h i s g ea r .
I f an emerg en c y s  ch a s
ai r f ai l  re o cc r s .
th e o nl y exi t f rom th e cav e
i s th e wa y o n e came in .
Yet man y div er s n awa re
o f th i s l og i sti ca l p rob l em
f ai l to p l an
f o r s  ch an emerg en c y .
Wh en p re sented wi th
th i s potenti a l l y
dang ero s s i t ati o n .
th e scba enth s i a st mst rel y
tota l l y o n h i s div e l i ght .
I f th e div e l i ght f ai l s .
o r a div er ' s swimming
techni  e sti r s p
th e cav e ' s s i l ty f l o o r .
di s o ri entati o n re s l ts .
Th e n o rma l re spo n se
i s pani c .
f o l l owed b y being trapped
in th i s nderwater l ab y rinth .
and ev ent a l l y drowning .
. . . re sc e ha s been down th ere
f o r s ome time .
We wi l l n oti f y
s ome mo re div er s .
j st hav e th em
o n standb y .
J o seph Ry an had j st receiv ed
h i s div ing certi f i cati o n .
He wa s a n ov i ce div er .
and y et had a f a l se sen se
o f h i s own s ki l l s .
He bel i ev ed that h i s
experi en ce wa s g reat en o gh
to compen s ate
f o r an y emerg en c y .
I n th eo r y. h e p robab l y
di d nder stand what to do .
bt wh en h e became sepa rated
f rom h i s div ing bddy.
h e s imp l y pani c ked .
At th i s po int . h e had
l i ttl e chan ce f o r s  rv iv a l .
As h e f ea red
f o r h i s l i f e .
h e n eg l ected
to a s se s s th e s i t ati o n .
and in e s sen ce . s i gn ed
h i s own death certi f i cate .
To cha l l eng e th e nkn own
and to anti cipate
a rema r kab l e di scov er y
i s o n e o f th e g reate st
l  re s o f cav e div ing .
Feel ing a sen se o f s a f ety
i s an impo rtant f a cto r
wh en o n e enter s
an n f ami l i a r l o ca l e .
Giv en th e sen se
o f sec ri ty.
a div er mst n ev er
l o se percepti o n
o f th e man y inh erent
dang er s wh i ch sti l l exi st .
A ba l an ce o f co n f i den ce
and h mi l i ty mst be a ch i ev ed .
Rea l i z ing o n e ' s vln erabi l i ty
i s an impo rtant pa rt
o f dea l ing wi th o n e ' s own
f ea r in an y g iv en s i t ati o n .
I f J o seph Ry an
had rea l i z ed th i s .
h e co l d hav e
s av ed h i s l i f e .
Th ere ' s a f in e
l in e between
s ometh ing being
stre s s f l and cha l l eng ing .
and f a r to o o f ten
beca se o f a stro ng eg o .
we a l l tend
to ps h o  r selv e s .
Th i s i s a bi g bo y spo rt .
y o  hav e to ma ke p y o  r mind
abo t th e ri s k
ah ead o f time .
GOn ce y o  g et in a s i t ati o n
wh ere y o  reg ret i t .
i t ' s to o l ate th en .
S ome peop l e I th ink do hav e
a tenden c y to ps h th emselv e s .
and perhap s ev en s o
beca se s ome peop l e
mi ght ev en hav e
a f ea r o f water i tsel f .
J o hn Rs kin o n ce
de sc ribed th e s n a ke
a s a rnning b ro o k
o f h o r ro r .
Th ere i s l i ttl e do bt
th e s n a ke i s indeed
a strang e c reat re .
f o r o nl y th ei r l e f t
l ng ha s s  rv iv ed
th e ev o l ti o n a r y p ro ce s se s
wh i ch hav e been n ece s s a r y
to ma ke s n a ke s what th ey a re .
j st a l o ng . n a r row rib ca g e
wi th a h ead at th e end .
No r do th e se repti l e s hav e
an y antibodi e s in th ei r b l o od.
s o a ti c k bi te .
i f i t g ets in f ected.
can ki l l a h i gh l y
v en omo s s n a ke .
Yet mo st peop l e f ea r th i s
seeming l y vln erab l e c reat re .
Andy Cko l a s ha s wo r ked
wi th v en omo s s n a ke s
f o r ov er 2 0 y ea r s .
D ring th i s time . h e ha s
co nd cted v a ri o s stdi e s
co n cerning th e behav i o ra l
pattern s o f rattl e s n a ke s .
App ro ximatel y 1 0 0 peop l e
di e ea ch y ea r
a s a re s l t o f th i s c reat re ' s
po i s o n o s bi te .
S in ce th e rattl e
s n a ke ' s f ang s
a re n ot s i ted
f o r bi ting l a rg e anima l s .
wh en th i s s n a ke
atta c ks h man s .
i t i s s  a l l y n ot ab l e
to g et in a g o od bi te .
s o man y peop l e s  rv iv e
b y de f a l t .
S o wh en J er r y Dav i s
deci ded to do s ome p l mbing
o n h i s moth er ' s ki tch en s ink.
h e a cci denta l l y di scov ered
a rattl e s n a ke ' s n e st
wh i l e l i f ting p
th e ki tch en f l o o rbo a rds .
Be f o re h e co l d rea ct .
h e wa s bi tten in th e hand
and immedi atel y
went into s h o c k .
Wi th in sev era l seco nds .
deadl y E a stern Di amo ndba c ks
were mov ing
abo t th e ki tch en .
Th e s h eri f f a r riv ed
min te s l ater wi th Andy .
J er r y Dav i s n eeded
medi ca l h elp .
bt f i r st th e s n a ke s
had to be remov ed .
I t wa s b y s h eer l  c k that
th i s n f o rtn ate in ci dent
happen ed in
Andy ' s h ometown .
S in ce th e s n a ke s had
s  r ro nded th e f a l l en bo y.
Andy had n o ch o i ce bt to
capt re th e v en omo s c reat re s
wh i l e th ey were
sti l l a l iv e .
Eipped wi th a speci a l
s n a ke sti c k.
Andy had to mea s  re
h i s ev er y mov e .
An E a stern Di amo ndba c k
i s capab l e o f stri king
a di stan ce o f two-th i rds
i ts own body l ength .
s o o n e wro ng mov e
co l d co st Andy h i s l i f e .
Keep y o  r ey e o n
that bi g o n e . Depty.
i f y o  wi l l . p l ea se .
GO ka y .
As th e s n a ke mov ed a ro nd
J er r y Dav i s ' n co n sci o s body.
Andy had to
i c ken h i s pa ce .
Wi th in min te s .
th e bo y wo l d di e
i f emerg en c y
medi ca l p ro ced re s
co l d n ot be per f o rmed .
I t l o o ks l i ke i t ' s tr ying
to g et awa y f rom s .
I do n ' t ca re . l et me
g et ov er h ere rea l i c k .
I t l o o ks l i ke
I ' m n ot n eeded h ere . . .
Th i s i s th e bi g g e st o n e
ri ght h ere .
I t ' s a bi g g y .
Watch y o  r sel f .
Th i s i s a bi g
rattl e s n a ke h ere .
Th i s i s p robab l y th e o n e
that bi t that g y.
l o o k at th e f ang s .
H ow i s h e ?
I ' m n ot f eel ing
a pl se j st y et .
Th ere i t i s .
Let me g o o ts i de and
g et a h o l d o f th e pa ramedi c s .
Al l ri ght .
GO ka y. I ' l l l o o k in h ere
f o r s ome mo re s n a ke s .
Th e timing co l d
n ot hav e been mo re per f ect .
a s Andy wa s capt ring
th e l a st rattl e s n a ke .
th e pa ramedi c ni t
a r riv ed o n th e scen e .
I n th e Uni ted S tate s .
o nl y th ree percent
o f s n a ke bi te v i ctims
wh o hav e receiv ed
anti v en om. di e .
S in ce Dav i s had o nl y been
bi tten o n th e hand o n ce .
th e pa ramedi c s f el t th ey
co l d s av e th e bo y ' s l i f e .
As th e bo y ' s f ranti c moth er
wa s co n s o l ed b y th e s h eri f f .
th e p ro f e s s i o n a l s per f o rmed
th ei r l i f e- s av ing ta s k .
Af ter v i ewing an in ci dent
s  ch a s th i s .
i t become s ea s y
to nder stand wh y mo st peop l e
hav e a f ea r
o f s n a ke s .
As Mr s . Dav i s v i ewed
h er s o n ' s hand.
s h e immedi atel y a s s o ci ated
th i s h o r rib l e experi en ce
wi th ev er y s n a ke s h e ' d
see f rom that moment o n .
Fo rtn atel y f o r h er s o n .
th e wo nd l o o ked f a r
wo r se than i t a ct a l l y wa s .
A f ew da y s l ater . h e
wa s rel ea sed f rom th e h o spi ta l
wi th a c l ean
bi l l o f h ea l th .
A bad experi en ce
s  ch a s th e o n e J er r y Dav i s
and h i s f ami l y nderwent
can s ometime s re s o lv e i tsel f
wi th a stro ng
p s y ch o l og i ca l f ea r .
Th ere wa s f ri ght .
th ere wa s pain .
th en momenta r y pani c .
and ev en th e f l eeting
th o ght o f death .
Al th o gh th e se emoti o n s
ma y hav e been wa r ranted.
th e s i t ati o n
wa s re s o lv ed .
Fo r s ome rea s o n . i t ta ke s
a l o ng time to f o rg et .
Th e ni ghtma re had been
c reated b y a c reat re
that ha s th e
potenti a l to ki l l .
Ev en th o gh
th i s experi en ce
wi l l p robab l y
n ev er repeat i tsel f .
th e Dav i s f ami l y wi l l a lwa y s
wo nder co l d i t happen a g ain .
And wi th th i s th o ght
th ey wo nder what oth er
c reat re s l a y in wai ting
f o r th ei r h man p rey .
Th e c r y sta l c l ea r water s
o f th e S o th P a ci f i c
set th e sta g e f o r a trl y
h o r ri f ying ex amp l e o f death .
Mi l a s Go odman .
a ren own ed ma rin e bi o l og i st
and nderwater
cin ematog raph er .
had set o t wi th a c rew
f rom th e i s l and o f Mo ki a
to comp l ete a do cmenta r y
o n s ha r k behav i o r .
As th e bo at app ro a ch ed
i ts de stin ati o n .
th e c rew beg an th e n ece s s a r y
s  r f a ce p repa rati o n
f o r an oth er da y
o f f i lming .
Th e expedi ti o n had been
ba sed in th e S o th P a ci f i c
f o r th e l a st
s i x weeks .
As i de f rom h i ring
a wel l experi en ced c rew .
Go odman had a g reat dea l
o f l  c k wi th Moth er Nat re .
f o r th e weath er co l d n ot
hav e been mo re bea ti f l .
Th i s wa s to be th e f in a l
div e o f th e expedi ti o n .
and a l s o
th e mo st ha z a rdo s .
I t wa s d ring th i s div e
that Go odman p l ann ed
to l  re di f f erent v a ri eti e s
o f ree f s ha r ks
into a co n f in ed a rea
b y wi ring bai t
to th e co r ra l h eads
o n th e o cean f l o o r .
B y enti cing th e s ha r ks
into a f eeding f ren z y.
th ey wo l d be
p l a cing th emselv e s
into a v er y
dang ero s s i t ati o n .
Th ere f o re . th e c rew
rea l i z ed th ey wo l d o nl y
hav e a l imi ted amo nt
o f f i lming time .
P attern s o f behav i o r
a re a l l impo rtant
to a bi o l og i st stdying
a pa rti cl a r anima l .
bt s ha r ks
remain in sc rtab l e .
Wh en th e g l immer o f a pattern
appea r s to be emerg ing .
i t i s v er y o f ten
s hattered o r b l  r red
b y n ew and
p z z l ing f a cts .
GO f th e wo r l d ' s
2 5 0 speci e s o f s ha r ks .
o nl y abo t 1 0 percent
a re p rov en man eater s .
H owev er .
in th i s s i t ati o n .
stati sti c s meant
v er y l i ttl e .
Th e s ha r ks en co ntered
b y Go odman and h i s c rew
were being
p rpo sel y a ro sed
to expo se th ei r a g g re s s iv e
n at re s f o r th e camera s .
As th e s ha r ks beg an to
di scov er th e bai t .
th e f i lming co l d n ot hav e
g o n e at a better pa ce .
Lewi s Ca r ro l l o n ce wrote .
' Bt wh en th e ti de ri se s
and th e s ha r ks a re a ro nd.
h i s v o i ce had a timi d
and treml o s s o nd . '
I f Go odman
o r an y o f h i s c rew
had an y f ea r
o f death b y s ha r ks .
th ey had l i ttl e time
to dwel l o n th i s emoti o n .
Al th o gh a rmed wi th
nderwater weapo n s
in ca se o f an a cci dent .
th e c rew rea l i z ed
th ey had l i ttl e p rotecti o n
a g ain st th e se deni z en s
o f th e deep .
I n a matter o f moments .
Go odman and h i s c rew
wo l d rea l i z e th ey had c reated
th e l timate f eeding f ren z y .
GOh my God .
Th ere s a . ca l l th e Co a st G a rd
h el i copter a s s i stan ce .
we ' v e had a bad
s ha r k atta c k .
We ' v e l o st s ome l imbs .
i c kl y ca l l th em.
ca l l th e Co a st G a rd
h el i copter a s s i stan ce .
Get me o t
o f th e water .
Ma s s iv e ti s s  e l o s s .
b ring th e f i r st ai d ki t .
B ring h im a ro nd. g et h im
o t o f th e water . i c k.
b ring h im a ro nd.
b ring h im a ro nd .
Get me o t
o f th e water .
Qi c k. i c k.
ma s s iv e ti s s  e l o s s .
I ' l l stop
th e b l eeding .
A man wh o had
dev oted h i s l i f e
to th e sea became a v i ctim o f
h i s own sci enti f i c p r s i ts .
a g rey s ha r k
had to rn o f f
o n e o f Go odman ' s l eg s
at th e kn eecap .
Mo st peop l e l iv e
in f ea r o f o n e da y
being atta c ked wh i l e
swimming in th e o cean .
I t i s i ro ni c that a man
wh o had n o f ea r
o f th e se c reat re s wo l d
ev ent a l l y f a l l v i ctim
to th ei r deadl y j aw s .
Hav e y o  ev er been
th e v i ctim o f a c rime .
a lmo st ev er y o n e ha s .
I t can be
comp l etel y dev a stating
to th o se o n
mea g er in come s .
Th e c rimin a l ' s menta l i ty
i s s imp l y.
y o  r l o s s
i s my g ain .
Th e se peop l e a re th e
l ow l iv e s o f s o ci ety.
p reying l i ke vl t re s
po n th e n s specting .
We ' re abo t to ex amin e
th e l timate f a ce o f death .
S ome s a y i t i s j sti f i ed.
th e kind o f death
that come s to th o se
wh o seem to de serv e i t .
I ' m n ot s  re that an y man
ha s a ri ght to j dg e an oth er .
bt I ' m a f i rm bel i ev er
that God pni s h e s th o se
wh o do inj sti ce
to oth er s .
s  a l l y in th e f o rm
o f etern a l damn ati o n .
o n ce th e ev i l s o l
l eav e s th i s ea rth l y p l ain .
Th i s time .
death ' s winning f a ce
i s in th e f o rm
o f an anima l .
I ca l l th i s f in a l chapter .
God. spel l ed ba c kwa rd .
I f th e dog
i s man ' s be st f ri end.
h e i s a l s o man ' s
be st p rotecto r .
G a rd dog s sti l l remain
o n e o f th e g reate st
deter rents a g ain st
th e c rimin a l el ement .
Ma rv in J a cobs
had own ed an a tobody
repai r s h op f o r 1 0 y ea r s .
Af ter repeated
ca r th e f ts .
h e in sta l l ed a v i deo camera
o n h i s l ot .
As addi ti o n a l p rotecti o n .
h e a l s o bo ght two g a rd dog s
to in s  re
a g ain st robber y .
GOn th e ni ght
o f Ma rch 1 4 th . 1 9 8 0 .
two men entered
J a cobs ' p roperty.
n awa re o f th e dang er s
that awai ted th em .
Wh i l e o n e o f th e robber s
man a g ed to e scape .
th e oth er wa s v i ci o s l y
ki l l ed b y th e g a rd dog s .
Th e po l i ce had n o ch o i ce
bt to s h o ot th e dog s
po n th ei r a r riv a l .
Th e two German S h eph erds
g a rding th e pa r king l ot
rep re sented a
f a ce o f death
to an y o n e
wh o wo l d da re tre spa s s .
S adl y. th e two
dog s had to di e
f o r per f o rming th ei r dty
to o z ea l o s l y ;
f o r a h man l i f e .
ev en that o f a c rimin a l
b rea king th e l aw .
i s mo re impo rtant
than an anima l ' s .
Th e dramati c f o ota g e
y o  a re v i ewing wa s reco rded
b y th e v i deo camera J a cobs
had in sta l l ed o n th e p remi se s .
I n a wo r l d that
i s co n stantl y chang ing .
in a s o ci ety that co ntin  e s
to g row mo re v i o l ent .
th e f ea r o f death
i s becoming th e p l a g e
o f th e 2 0 th cent r y .
Tired of searching for subtitles?
Ray generates them instantly: getray.app